[IMP] inventory: update delivery methods from 12 to 16 (#6287)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/shipping/setup/delivery_method.rst

================
Delivery methods
================

> Delivery methods, when activated in Odoo, adds the option of calculating the cost of shipping on
> sales orders and e-commerce shopping carts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When activated in Odoo, the *Delivery Methods* setting adds the option of calculating the cost of shipping on
sales orders and e-commerce shopping carts.
```

When integrated with a :ref:`third-party carrier <inventory/shipping/third_party>`, shipping prices
are calculated based on the carrier's pricing and packaging information.

.. seealso::
   - :ref:`Third-party shipping carrier setup <inventory/shipping/third_party>`
   - `Odoo Tutorials: Delivery Prices
     <https://www.odoo.com/slides/slide/delivery-prices-613?fullscreen=1>`_

Configuration
=============

> To calculate shipping on sales orders and e-commerce, the *Delivery costs* module must be installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To calculate shipping on sales orders and e-commerce, the *Delivery Costs* module must be installed.
```

To do so, navigate to the :menuselection:`Apps` application from the main Odoo dashboard. Then,

> remove the :guilabel:`Apps` filter, and type in `Delivery Costs` in the search bar. After finding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remove the :guilabel:`Apps` filter, and type in `Delivery Costs` in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar. After finding
```

the :guilabel:`Delivery Costs` module, click :guilabel:`Activate` to install it.

.. image:: delivery_method/install-module.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Install the *Delivery Costs* module.

Add shipping method
===================

To configure delivery methods, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Shipping
Methods`.

.. note::
   If the :guilabel:`Shipping Methods` option is not available from the :guilabel:`Configuration`
   drop-down menu, verify whether the feature is enabled by following these steps:

   #. Go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`.
   #. Scroll to the :guilabel:`Shipping` section and enable the :guilabel:`Delivery Methods` feature
      by checking the corresponding checkbox.

   .. image:: delivery_method/enable-delivery.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Enable the *Delivery Methods* feature by checking the box in Configuration > Settings.

On the :guilabel:`Shipping Methods` page, add a method by clicking :guilabel:`New`. Doing so opens
a form to provide details about the shipping provider, including:

> - :guilabel:`Shipping Method` (*Required field*): the name of the delivery method, e.g. `flat-rate
>   shipping`, `same day delivery`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Shipping Method` (*Required field*): the name of the delivery method (e.g. `flat-rate
  shipping`, `same day delivery`, etc.).
```

> - :guilabel:`Provider` (*Required field*): define the shipping method. Choose the delivery service,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Provider` (*Required field*): Choose the delivery service,
```

  like Fedex, if using a third-party carrier. Ensure the integration with the shipping carrier is

>   properly installed and select the provider from the drop-down menu.

Reviewer: Do we have a doc about configuring shipper integrations? If so, it might be good to link it here.

> - :guilabel:`Shipping Method`: the name of the delivery method, e.g. `flat-rate shipping`, `same
>   day delivery`. (*Required*)
> - :guilabel:`Provider`: define the shipping method. Choose the delivery service, like Fedex, if
>   using a third-party carrier. Ensure the integration with the shipping carrier is properly
>   installed and select the provider from the drop-down menu.
> 
>   For more details on configuring custom shipping methods, such as :ref:`Fixed Price
>   <inventory/shipping/fixed>`, :ref:`Based on Rules <inventory/shipping/rules>`, or :ref:`Pickup in
>   store <inventory/shipping/pickup>` options, refer to their respective sections below. (*Required*)

Author: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Shipping Method` (*Required field*): the name of the delivery method, e.g. `flat-rate
  shipping`, `same day delivery`.
- :guilabel:`Provider` (*Required field*): define the shipping method. Choose the delivery service,
  like Fedex, if using a third-party carrier. Ensure the integration with the shipping carrier is
  properly installed and select the provider from the drop-down menu.

  For more details on configuring custom shipping methods, such as :ref:`Fixed Price
  <inventory/shipping/fixed>`, :ref:`Based on Rules <inventory/shipping/rules>`, or :ref:`Pickup in
  store <inventory/shipping/pickup>` options, refer to their respective sections below.
```

>   For more details on configuring custom shipping methods, such as :ref:`Fixed Price
>   <inventory/shipping/fixed>`, :ref:`Based on Rules <inventory/shipping/rules>`, or :ref:`Pickup in
>   store <inventory/shipping/pickup>` options, refer to their respective sections below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For more details on configuring custom shipping methods, such as :ref:`fixed price
  <inventory/shipping/fixed>`, :ref:`based on rules <inventory/shipping/rules>`, or :ref:`pickup in
  store <inventory/shipping/pickup>` options, refer to their respective sections below.
```

- :guilabel:`Website`: configure shipping methods for an e-commerce page. Select the applicable
  website from the drop-down menu, or leave it blank to apply the method to all web pages.

> - :guilabel:`Company`: choose from the drop-down menu if the method is applied to a specific
>   company, or leave it blank to apply to all companies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Company`: if the shipping method should apply to a specific company, select it from the drop-down menu. Leave the field blank to apply the method to all companies.
```

> - :guilabel:`Delivery Product`: the product listed on the :ref:`sales order line
>   <inventory/shipping/sales-order>` as the delivery charge. (*Required*)

Author: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Delivery Product` (*Required field*): the product listed on the :ref:`sales order line
  <inventory/shipping/sales-order>` as the delivery charge.
```

- :guilabel:`Free if order amount is above`: checking this box enables free shipping if the customer
   spends above the specified amount.

For examples on how to configure specific shipping methods, refer to the sections below.

.. _inventory/shipping/fixed:

Fixed price
-----------

To configure a shipping price that is the same for all orders, set the :guilabel:`Provider` to the
:guilabel:`Fixed Price` option. Selecting this option makes the :guilabel:`Fixed Price` field become
available, which is where the fixed rate shipping amount is defined.

To enable free shipping if the amount of the order exceeds a specified amount, check the box
:guilabel:`Free if order amount is above` and fill in the amount.

.. example::

>    To set up `$20` flat-rate shipping that becomes free if the customer spends over `$100` fill in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To set up `$20` flat-rate shipping that becomes free if the customer spends over `$100`, fill in
```

:guilabel:`Delivery Cost`.

Once finished, click either :guilabel:`Save & New` to add another rule, or :guilabel:`Save & Close`.

.. example::
   To charge customers $20 in shipping for orders with five or fewer products, set the
   :guilabel:`Condition` to `Quantity <= 5.00`, and the :guilabel:`Delivery Cost` to `$20`.

   .. image:: delivery_method/pricing-rule.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Display window to add a pricing rule. Set a condition and delivery cost.

To restrict shipping to specific destinations on the eCommerce website, in the shipping method form,
navigate to the :guilabel:`Destination Availability` tab and define the :guilabel:`Countries`,
:guilabel:`States`, and :guilabel:`Zip Prefixes`. Leave these fields empty if all locations apply.

Calculate delivery cost
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Shipping cost is the :guilabel:`Delivery cost` specified in the rule that satisfies the
:guilabel:`Condition`, plus any extra charges from the :guilabel:`Margin on rate` and
:guilabel:`Additional margin`.

.. math::
   Total = Rule's~Delivery~Cost + (Margin~on~rate \times Rule's~Delivery~Cost) + Additional~margin

.. example::

>    With the two following two rules set up:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   With the two following rules set up:
```

>    #. If the order contains five or less products, shipping is $20

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. If the order contains five or fewer products, shipping is $20
```

   #. If the order contains more than five products, shipping is $50.

   :guilabel:`Margin on Rate` is `10%` and :guilabel:`Additional margin` is `$9.00`

   .. image:: delivery_method/delivery-cost-example.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Show example of "Based on rules" shipping method with margins configured.

>    When the first rule is applied, the delivery cost is `20 + (0.1 * 20) + 9` = $31. When the second
>    rule is applied, the delivery cost is `50 + (0.1 * 50) + 9` = $64.

Reviewer: I think the formatting looks better this way. Up to you though.
```suggestion
   When the first rule is applied, the delivery cost is $31 (20 + (0.1 * 20) + 9). When the second
   rule is applied, the delivery cost is $64 (50 + (0.1 * 50) + 9).
```

.. _inventory/shipping/pickup:

Pickup in store
---------------

To configure in-store pickup, select :guilabel:`Pickup in store` in the :guilabel:`Provider` field and
specify the pickup location in :guilabel:`Warehouse`.

To invoice the customer for the shipping cost to the pickup location, choose the :guilabel:`Get Rate
and Create Shipment` option in the :guilabel:`Integration Level` field. Then, pick either the
:guilabel:`Estimated cost` or :guilabel:`Real cost` radio options in the :guilabel:`Invoicing
Policy` field to decide whether the added shipping charge on the sales order is the precise cost
from the shipping carrier.

.. seealso::
   :ref:`Invoice cost of shipping <inventory/shipping/invoice>`

.. _inventory/shipping/sales-order:

Add shipping
============

To apply the configured shipping methods to calculate shipping cost, navigate to the desired sales
order by going to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Orders`.

> On the sales order, click the :guilabel:`Add shipping` button, opening the :guilabel:`Add a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the sales order, click the :guilabel:`Add shipping` button, which opens the :guilabel:`Add a
```

shipping method` pop-up window. Then, choose a :guilabel:`Shipping Method` from the list.

The :guilabel:`Total Order Weight` is pre-filled based on product weights (that are defined in the
:guilabel:`Inventory` tab for each product form). Edit the field to specify the exact weight, and
then click :guilabel:`Add` to add the shipping method.

.. note::
   The amount defined in :guilabel:`Total Order Weight` overwrites the total product weights defined

>    on the product form

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   on the product form.
```

The shipping cost is added to the *sales order line* as the :guilabel:`Delivery Product` detailed on
the shipping method form.

.. example::

>    In the sales order `S00088`, a fixed-rate delivery product, `Furniture Delivery` for `$200` is
>    added to account for the shipping of the product, `Four Person Desk`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `Furniture Delivery`, a delivery product with a fixed rate of `$200`, is added to sales order `S00088`.
```

     .. image:: delivery_method/delivery-product.png
        :align: center
        :alt: Show delivery order on the sales order line.

Delivery order
--------------

> The added shipping method on the sales order is linked to the shipping carrier details on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The shipping method added to the sales order is linked to the shipping carrier details on the
```

  third-party carrier. Ensure the integration with the shipping carrier is properly installed and
  select the provider from the drop-down menu.

  .. seealso::
     :ref:`Configure third-party shipping <inventory/shipping/third_party>`

  For more details on configuring custom shipping methods, such as :ref:`fixed price
  <inventory/shipping/fixed>`, :ref:`based on rules <inventory/shipping/rules>`, or :ref:`pickup in
  store <inventory/shipping/pickup>` options, refer to their respective sections below.
- :guilabel:`Website`: configure shipping methods for an e-commerce page. Select the applicable
  website from the drop-down menu, or leave it blank to apply the method to all web pages.
- :guilabel:`Company`: if the shipping method should apply to a specific company, select it from the
  drop-down menu. Leave the field blank to apply the method to all companies.
- :guilabel:`Delivery Product` (*Required field*): the product listed on the :ref:`sales order line
  <inventory/shipping/sales-order>` as the delivery charge.
- :guilabel:`Free if order amount is above`: checking this box enables free shipping if the customer

>    spends above the specified amount.

Author: It was because I had an extra space before the "spends above the specified amount" line :skull:

>    spends above the specified amount.

Author: I had introductory coding class debugging energy :skull: :clown_face:

   :guilabel:`Margin on Rate` is `10%` and :guilabel:`Additional margin` is `$9.00`.

   .. image:: delivery_method/delivery-cost-example.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Show example of "Based on rules" shipping method with margins configured.

   When the first rule is applied, the delivery cost is $31 (20 + (0.1 * 20) + 9). When the second
   rule is applied, the delivery cost is $64 (50 + (0.1 * 50) + 9).

.. _inventory/shipping/pickup:

Pickup in store
---------------

To configure in-store pickup, select :guilabel:`Pickup in store` in the :guilabel:`Provider` field
and specify the pickup location in :guilabel:`Warehouse`.

To invoice the customer for the shipping cost to the pickup location, choose the :guilabel:`Get Rate
and Create Shipment` option in the :guilabel:`Integration Level` field. Then, pick either the
:guilabel:`Estimated cost` or :guilabel:`Real cost` radio options in the :guilabel:`Invoicing
Policy` field to decide whether the added shipping charge on the sales order is the precise cost
from the shipping carrier.

.. seealso::
   :ref:`Invoice cost of shipping <inventory/shipping/invoice>`

.. _inventory/shipping/sales-order:

Add shipping
============

> To apply the configured shipping methods to calculate shipping cost, navigate to the desired sales
> order by going to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Orders --> Orders`.

Reviewer 2: Would be more specific here— as written (without the screenshot), it's not obvious that the shipping method(s) added before shows up as a delivery product in the order lines.

```suggestion
Shipping methods can be added to sales orders in the form of delivery products, which appear as
individual line items. First, navigate to the desired sales order by going to :menuselection:`Sales
app --> Orders --> Orders`.
```

On the sales order, click the :guilabel:`Add shipping` button, which opens the :guilabel:`Add a
shipping method` pop-up window. Then, choose a :guilabel:`Shipping Method` from the list.

The :guilabel:`Total Order Weight` is pre-filled based on product weights (that are defined in the
:guilabel:`Inventory` tab for each product form). Edit the field to specify the exact weight, and
then click :guilabel:`Add` to add the shipping method.

.. note::
   The amount defined in :guilabel:`Total Order Weight` overwrites the total product weights defined
   on the product form.

The shipping cost is added to the *sales order line* as the :guilabel:`Delivery Product` detailed on
the shipping method form.

.. example::
   `Furniture Delivery`, a delivery product with a fixed rate of `$200`, is added to sales order
   `S00088`.

     .. image:: delivery_method/delivery-product.png
        :align: center
        :alt: Show delivery order on the sales order line.

Delivery order
--------------

The shipping method added to the sales order is linked to the shipping carrier details on the
delivery order. To add or change the delivery method on the delivery itself, go to the

> :guilabel:`Additional Info` tab and modify the :guilabel:`Carrier` field.

Reviewer 2: This section does not seem complete...Is there more to this here besides changing the carrier?

Author: Not really, in the original doc, this section just was trying to communicate that the Carrier field on the delivery order is linked to the Carrier field on the sales order. So, changing one changes the other

![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/2b731c23-7e41-4318-9cdb-9b49386cdff2)

.. image:: delivery_method/delivery-order.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Shipping carrier information on the delivery form.

.. seealso::

>    - :ref:`Configure third-party shipping <inventory/shipping/third_party>`

Reviewer 2: not sure this is needed?
it's linked I think about 4 or 5 times already in the doc...
